So we were able to submit our form and ideally now we have a way to capture that data that the user
sent to the server once again.
If I submit some sort of data and click sent I get form submitted her right now.
If I open up the developer tools and refresh that you'll see that we have a few errors that we have
to take care of.
One is this form submitted.
So if I scroll all the way down there's actually one thing I need to fix in order for my server to be
able to read this data.
We have to go into our contact dot HMO and we just have to make sure that all our inputs that is email
text and the text area have a name attribute.
And this is so we can actually grab the data on the back and I'll show you what I mean.
So let's have name here as email name here as the subject and then name here
as the message.
So that if I save this now and I go back to my contacts and submit this again well we'll have to refresh
you first.
So let's refresh send some messages and if I click Submit now and we go to submit form
you'll see that if I scroll all the way down I have a form data field.
We now have email subject a message that we actually send all the way back to our flask application
because we now gave it these name attributes.
It knows what to send.
So this is just a quick gotcha is just an Asian male form standard that we'll just have to add ourselves.
Now if we go to the flask documentation we can access these values using the request dot form so if
we go back and we go to server dock by we can do something like they say in the documentation.
I can say if the request and this request is something that will have to import and which I already
have done from flask.
So if request method which is if we said that the method is going to be post which if we looked at the
contact that HMO we have the method ask post.
So if that's the case then I want you to grab that data by doing request DOD form and I can access different
values like email or message like this.
Now an easy way for us to grab this information is actually to do a method called to dict which is turning
something the form data into a dictionary.
So we're gonna get everything as a dictionary and then finally to make sure that we get this data.
Let's just print data and we just got to return something so let's say return and I want you to return
form submitted
otherwise we'll just return.
Something went wrong.
Try again if we save this
let's open up our terminal and let's go back to the form let's refresh.
I'm going to close this for now and just submit our regular information.
If I click sent form as submitted I have some errors here that we're gonna have to fix soon but if I
scroll a little bit up look at that we have e-mail subject and message as a dictionary on our back end.
We just transfer data to our Python app.
How cool is that.
Now the reason we get this error at the bottom is because right now when I submit a form I'm still requesting
the five icon icon.
Now if we go back to our application you'll notice that anytime we visit a new area our father Khan
is not showing well.
If we go back to our page let's go to index dot HMO.
We'll see that in the link over here.
We're looking for our feathered Khan dot icon in static assets.
But if you remember we have our bolt dot icon right in the static folder here.
So all we have to do is just either rename some of those files or in our case we can just move this
call it Farrakhan that icon and move it into the static assets folder.
Now if I refresh the page you'll see that I have my new bolt that icon.
Finally I want to actually do something more interesting once a user submits a form.
I want to have a little thank you message.
Now there's many ways of doing this but the easiest way we're going to do is we're going to copy this
entire file.
So I'm just going to say duplicate and call it.
Thank you Dot HMO now thank you dot HMO will be the exact same thing as the contact page that we created
except instead of the form that we have.
So let's grab this form information.
So instead of having this for perhaps it will simply say thank you I will get in touch with you shortly.
Now the cool thing that we can do here is that we can now redirect to the thank you page after they
submit the contact form and that way we can do that is in the server up PI we can import let's make
this a little bit smaller and it will import the redirect
and all we have to do here instead of saying form submitted is we can say redirect to what route.
Well it will redirect to.
Thank you Dot H2 email like this again because thank you that HMO is in our templates and because our
routes are setup to change dynamically we should be able to redirect to thank you.
HMO fi save and let's save refresh submit some data on here quick send like that.
Thank you I will get in touch with you shortly.
How cool is that.
And there's many cool things that we can do here right.
Using the
curly brackets like this if let's say we ask somebody to submit their user name or a name we can say
thank you.
With perhaps their actual name that be submitted.
So something like Thank you Bob or thank you.
But that's something we've already talked about for now.
That looks pretty nice so I'm able to now submit a contact form
make sure that you don't get any errors.
So if I click on send look at that issue mail even tells me hey this has to be an email.
Okay let's send in there we go.
Everything is working.
There are no errors we're submitting the form with all our data and we're receiving all that information
right over here.
How cool is that.
So we now have our server dot pie setup to actually accept information and now we have our Web site
that's able to well hopefully allow us to have clients message.
But we need to do something with this data to store it somewhere because now this is in memory.
Anytime I close the server this information is lost.
Ideally we persisted somewhere or ideally we store it somewhere so that in the future we can go back
maybe a week later and see who has submitted a form on our Web site.
Let's do that in the next video.